{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Wingdings;}{\f2\fnil Calibri;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset1 Cambria Math;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}{\*\mmathPr\mmathFont3\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\b\f0\fs28\lang9 Module: 14 Identity with Windows Server\par
\ulnone\b0\fs22 Active directory domain services\par
1. what is domain controller?\par
ans -> A domain controller is a type of server that processes requests for authentication from users within a computer domain.\par
2. describe forest, domain, tree, schema, OU, container, site, subnet, \par
ans -> A forest is a set of one or more domain trees that do not form a contiguous namespace.\par
        ->A domain is group of nodes, workstations, devices and other servers, etc that are meant to share resources and data.\tab\tab\par
       ->A domain tree is made up of several domains that share a common schema and configuration, forming a contiguous namespace.\par
       ->A schema is the definition of attributes and classes that are part of a distributed directory and is similar to fields and tables in a database.\par
      ->An OU is a container within a Microsoft Windows Active Directory (AD) domain that can hold users, groups and computers.\par
      ->Containers are a technology for packaging and running Windows and Linux applications across diverse environments on-premises and in the cloud.\par
     ->site is the aggregate of all well-connected subnets.\par
     ->the practice of logically subdividing a network address space by extending the string of 1-bits used in the subnet mask of a network.\par
3. partition, trust relationship\par
ans -> occurs when the CPUs on a server are separated into individual sections where each section acts as a separate system.\par
     ->an administration and communication link between two domains.\par
4. what is active directory?\par
ans -> Active Directory (AD) is a database and set of services that connect users with the network resources they need to get their work done.\par
5. what is global catalog server? \par
ans -> a feature of Active Directory (AD) that allows a domain controller (DC) to provide information on any object in the forest, regardless of whether the object is a member of its domain. \par
6. what is ADC AND RODC?\par
ans -> ADC converts a continuous-time and continuous-amplitude analog signal to a discrete-time and discrete-amplitude digital signal.\par
     ->A read-only domain controller (RODC) is a domain controller that hosts an Active Directory database's read-only partitions.\par
7. what is operation master role?\par
ans -> assigned automatically when the first domain controller in a given domain is created.\par
8. type of operation master role and describe all role.\par
ans -> Schema, Domain Naming, Primary Domain Controller (PDC) emulator, Relative Identifier (RID), and Infrastructure.\par
9. difference between transferring and seizing role \par
ans -> Transferring makes the old DC know that it does not own the role(s) any more. If the DC is broken (e. g. hardware defect) and will never come back again, then you can seize the role on a remaining DC.\par
10. password policy\par
ans -> \tab Step 1: Press \ldblquote Win\rdblquote  + \ldblquote R\rdblquote  key to open \ldblquote Run\rdblquote  window. ...\par
\tab Step 2: After you open \ldblquote Local Security Policy\rdblquote , select them in order: \ldblquote Security \tab Settings\rdblquote  > \tab\ldblquote Account Policies\rdblquote  > \ldblquote Password Policy.\par
11. what id profile and type of profile?\par
ans -> A profile-type defines a set of properties, also referred to as a schema, that are inherent to all profiles of that type.\par
12. group nesting and scope, type of group\par
ans -> The scope of an AD group determines both where the group can be applied in the forest or domain and who can be a member of a group.\f1\par
\'b7\f0  Practical\par
1. install ADDS and create a new forest \par
ans -> install role ADDS from "add role or feature".\par
2. give membership of pc to domain\par
ans -> Under Member of, click Domain, type the name of the domain that you wish this computer to join, and then click OK.\par
3. create a ADC\par
ans -> To promote this computer as an ADC select the option \ldblquote Add a domain controller to an existing domain\rdblquote .\par
4. create RODC and password replication \par
ans -> The Denied RODC Password Replication Group is used to specify users and groups whose passwords cannot be cached on RODCs\par
5. create a new site\par
ans -> Start IIS Manager. ...\par
       ->In the Connections pane, right-click the Sites node in the tree view, and then click Add  Web Site.\par
      ->In the Add Web Site dialog box, type a friendly name for your Web site in the Web site name box.\par
6. create a new child domain\par
ans -> Done in LAB\par
7. create a new tree\par
ans -> Install Windows Server. Obtain an installation disc or use the Windows Server ISO file to install the operating system.\par
-> Configure the Server. ...\par
-> Create a New Forest. ...\par
-> Create a user account. ...\par
-> Create a trust relationship. ...\par
-> Create a Group Policy Object. ...\par
-> Configure DNS. ...\par
-> Create new domains.\par
8. create a new user with GUI and CLI \par
ans -> The User section of the GUI page lists all the existing users and the associated user groups. Click Create User. The Create User window appears. Type the name of the new user in the Name field.\par
-> Use the create-user command to create the user. Use the add-user-to-group command to add the user to the group.\par
9. create roaming profile\par
ans -> Prerequisites.\par
Step 1: Enable the use of separate profile versions.\par
Step 2: Create a roaming user profiles security group.\par
Step 3: Create a file share for roaming user profiles.\par
Step 4: Optionally create a GPO for roaming user profiles.\par
Step 5: Optionally set up roaming user profiles on user accounts.\par
10. create OU and give delegation \par
ans -> On the Manage menu, click create Server Group.\par
 In the Server group name text box, type a friendly name for your server group, such as Accounting Servers. \par
add servers to the selected list from the server pool, or add other servers to the group by using the active directory, DNS, or import tabs.\par
11. create a group\par
ans -> On the Manage menu, click create Server Group.\par
 In the Server group name text box, type a friendly name for your server group, such as Accounting Servers. \par
add servers to the selected list from the server pool, or add other servers to the group by using the active directory, DNS, or import tabs.\par
12. transfer roles\f2\emdash PDC, RID , schema master\par
\f0 ans -> RID -> Open the Active Directory Users and Computers console, then right-click on the domain and click on operations masters.\par
 schema master -> Transfer the Schema Master Role \'b7 Click Start, click Run, type mmc in the Open box, and then click OK.\f2\par
13. Doamin name master\emdash\par
\f0 ans -> A domain controller that is in charge of adding new domains and removing unneeded ones from the forest.\f2\par
14. GUI and ntdsutil\par
\f0 ans -> Done in LAB\f2\par
15. IFM\par
\f0 ans -> The IFM method uses the data in the installation media to install AD DS\f2\par
Advance feature\par
1. describe account policy\par
\f0 ans -> A user account policy is a document which outlines the requirements for requesting and maintaining an account on computer systems or networks, typically within an organization.\f2\par
2. describe account lockout policy \par
\f0 ans -> The Account lockout threshold policy setting determines the number of failed sign-in attempts that will cause a user account to be locked.\f2\line 3. what is trust relationship\par
\f0 ans -> Trust relationships are an administration and communication link between two domains.\f2\par
4. type of trust relationship describe all trust \par
\f0 ans -> Active Directory trusts are communication bridges established between one domain and another domain in the Active Directory (AD) network.\f2\par
5. what is site and subnet ?\par
\f0 ans -> A site is made up of one or more Internet Protocol (IP) subnets that are linked by high-speed and reliable connections.\f1\par
\'b7\f0  Practical\par
1. manage active directory offline\par
ans -> I am trying to open 'active directory user & computers'. but showing ... In DNS this server is offline. AD and domain are in same server.\par
2. restore object of active directory from AD Recycle bin\par
ans -> STEP 1 -> Prerequisite: Enable the Recycle Bin in Active Directory. Open the Server Manager management console -> Click Tools -> Active Directory Administrative Center. ...\par
STEP 2 ->Restore an Object with the Active Directory Administrative Center (ADUC) ...\par
STEP 3 ->Restore an Object using PowerShell.\par
3. backup active directory\par
ans -> step 1 ->Install Windows Server Backup program from the Server Manager dashboard.\par
step 2 -> Open Windows Server Backup and Click the 'Local Backup' link on the left tree view.\par
step 3 ->In the Local Backup wizard, choose 'Full server (recommended)' option.\par
4. manage active directory replication---repadmin DcDiag \par
ans -> The first command you should use is replsummary. This command will quickly show you the overall replication health.\par
5. create multiplae UPN suffix multidomain enviourment \par
ans -> TOOLS > Active Directory Domains and Trusts > Active Directory Domains and Trusts > Active Directory Domains and Trusts > Properties > UPN Suffixes > Add > Apply > ok.\par
6. configure trust between forest check with login\par
ans -> Done in LAB\par
7. configure ADDS sites and subnet\par
ans ->step 1 -> In the Active Directory Sites and Services MMC, right-click Inter-Site Transports > IP and then click New Site Link.\par
step 1 -> In the New Object \f2\endash  subnet window, enter a desired name for the link, select both SiteA and SiteB, and click add.\par
\f0 step 1 -> \f2 Click OK to continue.\f0\par
Group Policy\par
1. what is group policy?\par
ans -> GPO  is a group of settings that are created using the Microsoft Management Console (MMC) Group Policy Editor.\par
2. what is default policy? Default Domain and domain controller\par
ans ->  A default GPO that is automatically created and linked to the domain whenever a server is promoted to a domain controller.\par
3. what is user configuration and computer configuration\par
ans -> The settings under Computer Configuration control how the computer is configured. The settings under User Configuration control the user's log-on session.\par
4. what is GPO?\par
ans -> A local Group Policy Objectrefers to the collection of group policy settings that only apply to the local computer and to the users who log on to that computer.\par
5. define software setting, windows setting, and administrative templates\par
ans -> software setting -> A software control panel that enables the user to configure the appearance or actions in an application, operating system or the hardware.\par
window setting -> Windows Settings (formerly PC Settings), or simply Settings app, is a component of Microsoft Windows.\par
administrative templates -> The Group Policy administrative templates define the registry settings that administrators can use to manage specific applications.\par
6. link GPO\par
ans -> step 1 ->  Logon to the domain controller as an administrator.\par
step 2 -> Start \f3\u8594?\f0  Administrative tools \f3\u8594?\f0  Group policy management console.\par
\lang9 step 3 -> Navigate to the desired OU, to which you want to link a GPO.\par
step 4 -> Right click on this OU and select "Link an existing GPO" .\par
step 5 -> In the "Select GPO" dialog under Group Policy Objects, select the GPO you want to link and click OK.\par
7. delegation GPO management \par
ans -> STEP 1 -> Create GPOs in a domain.\par
STEP 2 -> Set permissions on a GPO.\par
STEP 3 -> Set policy-related permissions on site, domain or organizational unit.\par
\tab STEP 3.1 -> Link GPOs to a given site, domain or organizational unit.\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 STEP 3.2 -> Perform Group Policy Modeling analyses on a given domain or organizational unit (but not on a site).\par
STEP 3.3 -> Read Group Policy Results data for objects in a given domain or organizational unit (but not on a site).\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 STEP 4 -> Create WMI filters in a domain.\par
STEP 5 -> Set permissions on a WMI filter.\par
8. inheritance policy\par
ans -> Both can inherit the total property if there are no children, relatives or distant kin.\par
9. filtering\par
ans -> Server-side filters are the types of filter checks that exist on the server.\par
10. script, templates\par
ans -> Script-server is a Web UI for scripts. As an administrator, you add your existing scripts into Script server and other users would be able to execute them via a web interface. The UI is very straightforward and can be used by non-tech people.\par
A server template is used to define the configuration settings for a new application server.\f1\par
\'b7\f0  Practical\par
1. backup restore import and copy GPO \par
ans -> Done in LAB\par
2. force group policy command\par
ans -> command is -> "gpupdate /force"\par
3. check group policy settings \par
ans ->  Management Console (GPMC), use the Group Policy Search tool.\par
4. configure folder redirection\par
ans -> Step 1: Create a folder redirection security group. ...\par
Step 2: Create a file share for redirected folders. ...\par
Step 3: Precreate folders for new users on servers that also host Remote Desktop Services. ...\par
Step 4: Create a GPO for Folder Redirection. ...\par
Step 5: Configure the Group Policy settings for Folder Redirection and Offline Files.\par
5. software installation ---assign and publish \par
ans -> Done in LAB\par
6. drive map through policy\par
ans -> STEP 1: Create A GPO. Log on to a Domain Controller. ...\par
STEP 2: Link the GPO to an Active Directory Container/Organization Unit. ...\par
STEP 3: Publish the Shared Folder. ...\par
STEP 4: Configure Map Network Drive Using Group Policy.\par
Certification services\par
1. purpose of certification\par
ans -> The purpose of certification is to demonstrate that specified requirements are met.\par
2. certificate service and its role service \f2\endash certificate authority, certificate enrolment policy\f0\lang16393  \f2\lang9 web service\par
\f0 ans -> Done in LAB \f2\par
3. standalone v/s enterprise CA \par
\f0 ans -> Standalone CAs are easier to set up and manage, but they lack the security and scalability of an Enterprise CA.\f2\par
4. root CA and subordinate CA\par
\f0 ans -> The root CA is self-signed and signs all subordinate CAs immediately below it.\f2\par
5. describe certificate templates and how to use it\par
\f0 ans -> Certificate templates define the format and content of certificates issued by enterprise certificate authorities.\f1\par
\'b7\f0  Practical\par
1. install certiface services ---certifacte authority and web enrolment\par
ans -> Done in LAB\par
2. issue certificate through web enrolment and make secure web site\par
ans -> Done in LAB\par
3. self-signed certificate\par
ans -> A self-signed TLS/SSL certificate is not signed by a publicly trusted certificate authority (CA) but instead by the developer or company that is responsible for the website\par
4. mange certificate---using template and issue certificate for computer\par
ans -> Done in LAB\par
5. backup CA\par
ans ->  Manual backup of certificate authority server can be performed through the CA console.\par
ADFS\par
1. what is federation services \par
ans -> Federation Services is a Microsoft product that provides users with single sign-on (SSO) access to systems incapable of using IWA via AD.\par
2. ADFS service component \par
ans -> Active Directory. This is where ADFS's identity information gets stored. ...\par
-> Federation server. It manages federated trusts between business partners by issuing security tokens. ...\par
-> Federation server proxy. ...\par
-> ADFS web server.\par
3. ADFS requirement\par
ans ->  AD FS requires a full writable Domain Controller to function as opposed to a Read-Only Domain Controller.\par
4. multifactor authentication \par
ans -> Multi-factor authentication (MFA) is a multi-step account login process that requires users to enter more information than just a password.\par
5. web application proxy \par
ans -> The Web Application Proxy is a role service in Windows Server Remote Access.\f1\par
\'b7\f0  Practical\par
1. Install ADFS service and configure between two trusted organizations (relay party trust)\par
ans -> Done in LAB\par
2. multifactor authentication\par
ans -> Multi-factor authentication (MFA) is a multi-step account login process that requires users to enter more information than just a password.\par
ADRMS\par
1. what is ADRMS\par
ans -> AD RMS allows individuals and administrators through IRM policies to specify access permissions to documents, workbooks, and presentations.\par
2. how to secure data and type of security \par
ans -> Back up your data. ...\par
Use strong passwords and multi-factor authentication. ...\par
Be aware of your surroundings. ...\par
Be wary of suspicious emails. ...\par
Install anti-virus and malware protection. ...\par
Protect your device when it's unattended.\par
3 what is service account\par
ans -> Conceptual and lifecycle information about IAM service accounts.\f1\par
\'b7\f0  Practical\par
1. install ADRMS and secure data (different security apply)\par
ans -> AD RMS allows individuals and administrators through IRM policies to specify access permissions to documents, workbooks, and presentations.\par
}
 